#summary Setup development environment
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation
= How to setup development environment =

Perform the following steps:

  * Install [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/ Java JDK 6]

  * Install the latest version of [http://maven.apache.org/download.html Maven2] 

  * Add SCM properties to your local maven settings ({USER_HOME}/.m2/settings.xml)

{{{
<settings>

  <profiles>
    <profile>
      <id>spelstegen</id>
      <properties>
        <spelstegen-scm-username>{YOUR_USERNAME}</spelstegen-scm-username>
        <spelstegen-scm-password>{YOUR_PASSWORD}</spelstegen-scm-password>
      </properties>
    </profile>
  </profiles>

  <activeProfiles>
    <activeProfile>spelstegen</activeProfile>
  </activeProfiles>

</settings>
}}}

Replace {YOUR_USERNAME} and {YOUR_PASSWORD} with the ones you see when you are logged in at http://code.google.com/p/spelstegen/source/checkout

  * Optionally install a [http://subversion.tigris.org/getting.html Subversion client] to be able to run mvn:scm from command line

  * Optionally install [http://tortoisesvn.net/downloads TortoiseSVN]. TortoiseSVN integrates subversion very nicely with the Windows Explorer.

  * Install [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/ Eclipse IDE for Java EE Developers (3.5 - Galileo)]

  * Configure Eclipse to start from installed JDK. Add the following lines to eclipse.ini, i.e:
{{{
-vm
C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.6.0_12\bin\javaw.exe
}}}

  * Set text file encoding in eclipse to UTF-8 (Under Windows->Preferences->General->Workspace) 

  * Install Subclipse. Update site: http://subclipse.tigris.org/update_1.4.x/

  * Install Subversive SVN Connectors. Update site: http://community.polarion.com/projects/subversive/download/eclipse/2.0/galileo-site/

  * Install M2Eclipse (Integrates maven with Eclipse). Update site: http://m2eclipse.sonatype.org/update/
  Select the following components to install:
    * Maven Integration	(All components)
    * Maven Optional Components	
      * Maven issue tracking configurator for Mylyn 3.x (Optional)
      * Maven SCM handler for Subclipse (Optional)
      * Maven SCM handler for Team/CVS (Optional)
      * Maven SCM Integration (Optional)	

  * Install Subversive Integrations (Select only integration for M2Eclipse). Update site: http://community.polarion.com/projects/subversive/download/integrations/galileo-site/
  
  * Install Google Plugin for Eclipse. Update site: http://dl.google.com/eclipse/plugin/3.5

  * Import project from SCM. In Eclipse:
    # File->New->Others...->Check out Maven Project from SVN
    # Choose SCM type: svn
    # Enter SCM URL: https://spelstegen.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/
    # Click: Finish
  
  
  * Download [http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/5.1.html MySQL Connector/J 5.1] and add mysql-connector-java-5.1.X-bin.jar to jre/lib/etc folder of your JDK.
  * Install [http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/5.0.html#downloads MySQL] and create a user named _stegusr_ with password _stegpw_ and with permissions on the _spelstegen_ schema.
  * To create the tables needed for the application in mysql execute one of the following scripts located in the db folder from the command prompt:

    * mysql -u stegusr -p < create_db.sql
    * mysql -u stegusr -p < create_db_with_test_data.sql  (to add som sample test data)
   
  * Enable GWT for the project. In Eclipse:
    * Right-click your project and select Google > Web Toolkit Settings. Check the Use Google Web Toolkit box and click OK to apply the change.
  
  * To run the project - create a launch configuration. TODO: Automate this step using maven.
  